.\" Copyright (C) 2021-2023, Gufo Labs.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
.\" are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" 
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Gufo Labs nor the names of its contributors may be used
.\"    to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
.\" ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH gufo-agent 1
.SH NAME
.Nm gufo-agent
.Nd an universal agent for infrastructure monitoring
.SH SYNOPSYS
Usage: gufo-agent [OPTIONS]

Options:
  -q, --quiet
  -v, --verbose...
  -k, --insecure         [env: GA_INSECURE=]
  -c, --config <CONFIG>  [env: GA_CONFIG=]
      --hostname <HOSTNAME>  [env: GA_HOSTNAME=]
      --list-collectors
      --dump-metrics     [env: GA_DUMP_METRICS=]
      --config-discovery
      --config-discovery-opts <CONFIG_DISCOVERY_OPTS>  [env: GA_CONFIG_DISCOVERY_OPTS=]
      --config-scripts <CONFIG_SCRIPTS>
      --test
  -h, --help             Print help
  -V, --version          Print version
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBgufo-agent\fR is an universal agent for infrastructure monitoring, which
collects the configured metrics and exposes them to the OpenMetrics compatible
endpoint.

.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:

.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Be quiet and disable logging.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Increase logging verbosity. Repeat option to increase verbosity further.
The appropriate logging levels:
`-v` - info.
`-vv` - debug.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-insecure
Do not check TLS certificate when fetching config over HTTPS.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fI<CONFIG>\fR
Load configuration from \fI<CONFIG>\fR path.
.TP
.BR \-\-hostname
Override agent's hostname.
.TP
.BR \-\-list-collectors
Print list of compiled collectors and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-dump-metrics
Dump metrics database state to stdout after each collector run.
.TP
.BR \-\-config-discovery
Run config discovery, dump resulting config to stdout and exit. See Config Discovery for details.
.TP
.BR \-\-config-discovery-opts
Optional config discovery configuration. See Config Discovery for details.
.TP
.BR \-\-config-scripts
A path to the directory containing config discovery scripts. See Config Discovery for details.
.TP
.BR \-\-test
Test run. Lauch all configured collectors once, dump resulting database and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print agent version and exit.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of \fBgufo-agent\fR:

.TP
.BR GA_CONFIG
same as \fI--config\fR option.
.TP
.BR GA_DUMP_METRICS
same as \fI--dump-metrics\fR option.
.TP
.BR GA_HOSTNAME
same as \fI--hostname\fR option.
.TP
.BR GA_INSECURE
same as \fI--insecure\fR option.
.TP
.BR GA_CONFIG_DISCOVERY_OPTS
same as \fI--config-discovery-opts\fR option.
.TP
.BR GA_CONFIG_SCRIPTS
a colon-sparated list of directories, containing discovery scripts.

.SH SIGNALS

.TP
.BR SIGHUP
Reload configuration.

.SH EXIT STATUS
The `gufo-agent` returns:
.TP
.BR 0
on successful exit.
.TP
.BR 1
on error.
.TP
.BR 2
on invalid command-line option.
